---
title: "At the University of Groningen"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate courses"
permalink: /teaching/2016_17-now
venue: "University of Groningen"
date: 2024-01-01
location: "Groningen, the Netherlands"
---

At RUG I am currently teaching two courses: [Cloud Computing and Cloud-based Applications](https://ocasys.rug.nl/current/catalog/course/WMCS032-05) for the MSc in Computing Science programme, and [Web Engineering](https://ocasys.rug.nl/current/catalog/course/WBCS008-05) for the 2nd year BSc students in the respective programme. 

Cloud Computing and Cloud-based Applications
============================================

In this [course](https://ocasys.rug.nl/current/catalog/course/WMCS032-05) we are discussing cloud computing fundamentals, virtualization and resource management, the current technological landscape, and research issues related to cloud native architectures, including microservices, and sustainability.


Web Engineering
===============

The [course](https://ocasys.rug.nl/current/catalog/course/WBCS008-05) covers a wide range of topics: Web fundamentals, REST and in particular RESTful API design, Web technologies and frameworks, and architectural considerations for Web-based systems.

-----------------------

In the past, I co-lectured for the Web and Cloud Computing course (MSc, discontinued), and taught the Computer Architecture (1st year BSc) course. I also did tutoring for the Introduction to Computing Science (1st year BSc) course which provides a broad introduction to multiple aspects of Computer Science.

Web and Cloud Computing 
=======================

I was covering the Cloud Computing part of the course discussing cloud computing fundamentals, the current technological landscape, virtualization and resource management, and research issues related to cloud economics, migration of applications to the cloud, and cloud provider selection. Most (but not all) of the topics I was teaching for this course have moved to the Cloud Computing and Cloud-based Applications course.

Computer Architecture
=====================

The course covered the key concepts, techniques, issues, and best practices in the design of a modern computer architecture. The subject material ran up the abstraction layers stack of computer systems. It also provided a short overview of basic concepts of computer networks.

